the cell transcribes the genetic designs
for each protein from strands of DNA to
special molecules of RNA and enzyme
unwinds a segment of DNA making room for
its complementary RNA nucleotides both
DNA and RNA nucleotides contain a sugar
phosphate and base but in RNA the sugar
is ribose and one of the four bases is
replaced by uracil the exposed bases of
the DNA strand serve as a model for the
construction of messenger or mRNA on
other strands the cell produces transfer
or tRNA and ribosomal or our RNA in
their final form these molecules play a
vital role in protein synthesis
translation begins with the binding of a
messenger RNA to a small subunit of a
ribosome the cell's workbench for
protein assembly
when properly positioned the messenger
RNA triggers the approach of a tRNA
which carries the first amino acid the
tRNA attaches only if it's three
nucleotides exactly match the first
three coding nucleotides of the mRNA
strand a large ribosomal subunit now
joins the group to form a functional
ribosome with two binding sites built
from ribosomal proteins and our RNA soon
another tRNA arrives which matches the
next three nucleotides on the Strand
with the help of the ribosome and some
cellular energy the neighboring amino
acids bond together the first amino acid
then separates from its RNA taxi leaving
the ribosome in search of another
identical amino acid
now the ribosome moves along the mRNA
strand this exposes the next set of
nucleotides which match those of another
tRNA with each amino acid the protein
continues to elongate as it grows it
folds into the three-dimensional shape
so crucial to its function when the
process is complete the ribosomal
fragments separate free to join again
later
with a legion of these molecules and
operation a single cell can produce
hundreds of proteins every second